Each project abstract should be no more than 100 words structured as follows. Start with the goal(s) of the project and how it contributes to the existing literature(s). Next, describe the main premise(s) or question(s) central to the project. Finally, indicate the main data sources and methodology.

Economic Inequality, Demand for Redistribution, and Redistributive Outcomes: Building the Empirical Foundations for Dynamic Comparative Research

Does rising income inequality in a country yield greater demand for more redistributive policy among its citizens?  Does greater public demand prompt more redistribution?  The answers to both of these questions are clearly not simply yes or no, but conditional on  other circumstances.  Assessing hypotheses regarding these circumstances will require comparable data--on inequality, on public opinion, and on redistribution--across space and time.  This paper takes up that task.  It first evaluates the author's long-running project, the Standardized World Income Inequality Database (SWIID), as a source of data on income inequality and redistribution for this purpose.  It then applies the author's new approach, Dynamic Comparative Public Opinion (DCPO), to overcome the sparsity and incomparability of available survey data and provide comparable estimates of public opinion regarding redistribution for many countries over many years.  Finally, it offers an appraisal of whether the combination of these two datasets can serve as a sound basis for further investigation of these two questions on the consequences of income inequality for politics and policy.

This project assesses the relationships between rising income inequality, redistributive attitudes, and redistribution, seeking to arbitrate between (and possibly reconcile) the contradictory findings of bias towards high-income Americans in policymaking and of U.S. government responsiveness to overall public opinion.  
It will look over time and in comparative perspective to discern conditional relationships in both the causes and consequences of changes in public opinion regarding redistribution.
To do so, it will draw on national and international surveys and the ideal-points and policy-mood literatures to develop new estimates of redistributive attitudes across entire publics and within income groups over time.
